hello everyone welcome to the deep dive
on amazon s3 my name is Susan Chan I'm a
Senior Product Manager with Amazon with
the Amazon s3 team so Amazon have a full
range of storage portfolio if you need
file we have Amazon EFS if you need
block storage you can choose between MS
on EBS for persistence store or Amazon
ec2 for your instance store today we're
going to focus on amazon s3 on the
object storage so here's what we're
going to talk about we're going to dive
deep into how you can pick the right
storage class for your use case well
talk to a little bit about some of the
tools we are we offering you to automate
your management tasks so you can focus
on growing your business and building
your application and leave the heavy
lifting to 2 s 3 i'll talk a little bit
about some of the best practice you can
get better performance out of s3 and
i'll also go through some of the new
tools that we're offering to help you
manage your storage does it start with i
love to hear how many of you are
actually currently using s3 majority of
you fantastic this is a deep dive
session I am assuming that you have work
some working knowledge of s 3 i'm likely
going to go all the way up to the top of
the hour but i will stay back to answer
questions for as long as you need and
i'll have a few colleagues with me as
well so you what we probably won't have
a time for Q&A but i'll stay back at the
end and you can answer your question to
answer your questions to start off with
let's talk about oh what happened here
getting your data into s3 not all data
not all data transfer is the same we
know that and therefore we offer a range
of tools to help you get your data into
s3 if you want to stream data into into
Amazon you can consider amazon kinesis
fire hose
if you have a data on premises and you
wanted to connect your on-premise
infrastructure with the AWS cloud
consider the air the AWS Storage Gateway
a couple days ago we announced that we
added a file gateway so you can use the
if you have on premise application that
I that has the NFS protocol you can
connect to your s3 bucket as an NFS
mount point so that's something new if
you have if you have petabytes of
storage in a location that doesn't have
very good connectivity you can consider
AWS snowball edge which is also compute
power so you can do some processing as
you load your data onto the snowball and
of course if you have hundreds of
petabyte or try exabyte of data consider
our AWS snowmobile they won't let me
drive the snowmobile on stage but here
you have it for effect if you have data
on premises you probably have software
from one of these industry leaders some
of these can help you migrate workload
on to AWS so your application can run on
AWS or in a hybrid architecture mode
they make it easy for you to migrate or
scale your growth leveraging amazon s3
and amazon glacier as your cloud storage
targets
so once you once you figure out how to
get your data into into onto the cloud
you have a choice of storage classes on
amazon s3 all three of these storage
classes are highly durable and and
they're designed for 11 nines of
durability let's start with S three
standard it is designed for active data
that hot workload that you have it is
highly performance designed for four
nights of availability so it's always
available it this is the general-purpose
storage class when you have new data
that comes in and they're frequently
access consider starting with s three
standard and this data age it's a lot of
the times you see the access pattern to
drop off standard in frequent access is
designed for this coder and less
frequently accessed data this still have
the same high performance as s3 standard
so when you need that data you still
have access to it right away this has a
much lower cost point with cost starting
at one point two five cents per gigabyte
which is forty five percent lower in
storage costs than s3 standard it does
there is a retrieval course costs for
standard in frequent access but if you
are putting that colder store l coder
object in in the storage class you are
able to take advantage of that lower
storage costs and as your data h even
further at some point no one is really
actively interacting with your data
anymore you might need to keep it for
record-keeping purposes glacier is
designed for this long term archive
purpose it has very very low cost with
storage starting at four tenth of a cent
and earlier we announced that there's
additional retrieval option so there are
now three retrieval option ranging from
minutes to hours so you can choose
depending on how quickly you need the
data before I move on this slide I also
want to mention that we have just
dropped pricing for s3 standard
effective today so a standard has
pricing now starting at 2.3 cents per
gigabyte per month
so how does this all these storage
classes relate to your use case how do
you pick the right storage classes well
here's kind of a rule of thumb if you
are thinking if your storage is for big
data analysis content distribution or
static website you likely going to see a
lot of retrieval on your on your data so
consider starting with s three standard
using s three standard for those data if
your use case is for backup and archive
or disaster recovery you generally don't
access this data until the very rare
occasion when you need it you know when
your primary copy it becomes unavailable
but when you need it you need it right
away standard in frequent access is
designed for this so I'll consider using
step directly putting into standard in
frequent access for these data glacier
is for your long-term archive other than
the really really old data that you need
you need to keep we also see customer
just directly putting into Glacier for
preservation for digital preservation
for example earlier Sony's shared that
they have just moved over a million
hours of videos from magnetic tape into
Glacier for digital preservation so
maybe you can consider us maybe you also
have some of these use cases and you can
think about which storage classes you
should you should be using so as I
mentioned the as your data H a lot of
the times even when you when you start
with S three standard and your your new
data that you doing at your big data
analysis at some point you at some point
that the access pattern drops just
because you've got new your data and the
older data is no longer used so the next
big question is when should you move
this data into into standard and
frequent access so for that we recently
we just announced us s3 analytics
storage class analysis what it is it
helps you visualize the access pattern
on your data over time so that you can
you can you can see what the access
pattern if you
data is and visualize it so you can take
a data-driven approach to manage your
storage once you what storage class
analysis help you with other than
visualizing is also it also measures the
object age when the data becomes
infrequently access you can you can
configure you can configure storage
class analysis by the bucket or you can
also selectively configure it into
prefix or specific object tags so you
can dive deep and figure out which part
of your data is infrequently access and
take advantage of that and what storage
class analysis that you do is is that it
gives you it gives you an easy output so
that you can easily create a lifecycle
policy based on the data life cycle
policies are based on age so you can you
can observe the age of the of the object
and and figure out when you should tell
at what point you should you should set
your life cycle policy and transition
that into standard infrequent access
sorry this is a little glitchy so here's
how a storage class analysis look like
once you enable it you get a dashboard
that look like this on the top of the
dashboard it tells you how long you have
been you have have this enabled
obviously the longer the longer the data
the longer you've had this enable the
more the more confident you are with you
know how long your your time series is
so what you can see in here you know
based on the storage over the last 115
days that we've been observing this data
we're seeing that objects older than 30
90 days are infrequently access so you
can tell that in my in my bucket I have
three petabytes of storage and I'm
retrieving about two petabyte of it so
overall it seems like this is actually
pretty frequently accessed i'm looking
at sixty-five percent of my data it's
pretty active so it looks like standard
either right storage class for me and
down below you can see the kind of the
time series so the blue is the amount of
storage stored and the purple is the
amount of data retrieved okay but if you
so what we also give you other than that
broad analysis is we also dissect your
data into H buckets so here you can see
the top three the top three box is data
less than 60 days old you we are
frequently accessing those so those are
s3 standard is the right storage class
for them you can see the to the bottom
right hand left hand two boxes data
older than 90 days they are actually
very infrequently access most all your
access is actually concentrated on data
that is newer than 90 days so that is an
opportunity for you to set a lifecycle
policy at 90 days to transition anything
that is older than 90 days into standard
in frequent access and you can see
there's over out of that three petabyte
that I saw over a 1 / 1 petabyte of that
could have been in standard in frequent
access
so this data is where is this this
valuable data you can also export s3
analytics so you can use it with the
tools that your that you wanted to use
with so you can use it with Amazon click
quick site or Excel or any of these
tools that that you would like the the
LP export is is an output a flat file so
you can you can do the analysis in the
way that you like so how do you get
started you might so this is this is
actually a de management console that
some most of you probably familiar with
this is our old management console in
order for you to see these new features
you need to opt in and get into the new
management console so once you up into
the new management console you can see
this new interface you can go to the
management tab under analytics you be
able to enable storage class analytics
on the left on the right hand side you
can also add filters as you can filter
for by prefix or by object tag so you
can have detail analysis for specific
part of you of your bucket and you can
also off to export the data so you can
use it into with the tools that you want
when you enable this for the first time
it may take one to two days before you
start seeing your analysis as we
populate your data so Nix let's talk
about how you can Madame ate some of
these management tasks so we've talked
about storage class analysis you figured
out that maybe some of your so many data
for my example 9 anything over 90 days I
should really move in 2s 3s standard in
frequent access you can use lifecycle
policy to automate all of that life
cycle policy allows you to set a
transition data into standard in
frequent access or glacier and also at
the end you can also set a policy to
remove data that you no longer need you
can you can
choose some of one or more of these
action or you can also combine all of
these actions so you can transition to
standard in frequent access in 90 days
and then later on transition to glacier
and then at the end expire or you can
just choose expire if that's what you
need you can set a policy at a very
granular level you can do it at the
bucket level prefix or object tags the
same way that you can you can get your
s3 analytics with you can also set up
different policy for current or
non-current version if you have a
version and able buckets so quickly the
best way to walk through how to set
livecycle policy is actually through the
management console so this is the new
console interface the first step is you
would you would add any filter that you
want it by default lifecycle policies
are at the bucket level so you can
either set at the bucket level or in my
case in this demonstration objects that
are in prefix one and tagged as
Department equal Finance will get will
be will apply this will have this life
cycle policy applied Nix you said you
can optionally set transition so here
based on the observation from the
storage class analysis I'm setting my
transition to stand it in frequent
access for 90 days after the object is
created and remember when we were as
object transition from standard to
standard IA there is no change in the
URI so your application don't need to
change at all the reed the reed path is
the same
and here I also try also set to
transition so after after the objects
transition into standard in frequent
access I also asked a lifecycle policy
to transition into Amazon glacier a year
after the object is created you can also
set exploration so here I'm setting
exploration for ten years after ten
years I no longer need to retain my my
record and so I asked lifecycle policy
to remove that after ten years so once
you set this life cycle policy you can
you can move on to you know developing
your application and and managing your
business and s3 will will evaluate your
policy every day and make changes
according to the rule that you have set
so you don't have to think about it
anymore it's all automated so second
topic that I want to cover is policy so
you can protect your data from
accidental delete we encourage you to
consider versioning versioning gives you
the ability to recover from unintended
deletes or application logic failure you
know s3 is a highly durable storage but
we cannot tell a delete that is
unintentional versus intentional if it
is a delete request we take that the
request and we remove your object what
when you have versioning and able what
it does is that every upload every
upload is created as a new version of
the object so if you put an object in an
existing key instead of overriding that
key we'll put a new version on top of
that and so all the previous versions
are preserved when you delete an object
in a version and able bucket instead of
removing that object we actually put a
delete marker on top and when you read
the object will behave as this as if the
object no longer exists but if you
decide that that was an intentional
delete you can remove that delete marker
and you you can elegantly you know row
back to your previous version so we we
recommend this
the best practice so as an advanced tip
you can actually create a life cycle bin
for your storage by combining versioning
and lifecycle policy so you can enable
versioning on your bucket and that
creates the recycle bin because it
maintains every version of your object
as you as you write on it and and you
use lifecycle policy you can set up a
non-current exploration policy to define
the duration of your recovery window for
example you want you want to maintain
all the old version for 14 days and
beyond that you probably don't need it
anymore so use a lifecycle exploration
policy and we just automatically remove
that after 14 days of it being non
current so the third topic I want to go
through is is for you to consider
automating with trigger based workflow
for example when you get raw data into
your bucket you may want to process it
and you can automate you can automate
that with event notification you can set
up event notification in response to
specific change changes to your object
be it object creation or deletion and
you can also be very specific that says
to set up a filter on either by prefix
or by suffix so you can say hey only
triggered the event if an object is
created in my / image prefix or only
triggering event if an object is created
that has a dot raw suffix notification
can be published in into three different
three different targets you can publish
a push notification with Amazon SNS so
you can broadcast event to a large
number of clients or you can you know
trigger a mobile alert you can also you
can do a push notification with SQS
queue so your worker fleet can
asynchronously process process your data
in the back end
a third way you can get notification is
through a lambda function so with you
can trigger notifications so that the
lambda would automatically execute your
code when that s3 event that you define
occurs lambda lambda would run that code
without you having to provision server
or manage instances so it's very
convenient we're seeing a lot of
customers adopting event notification we
have customers like human longevity
who's using s3 event to trigger their
genoa genome genomics processing we also
hear that Turner the broadcasting
company uses s3 event to trigger lambda
function for their content processing so
think about whether or not there's
there's a place in your application for
event notification the fourth topic I
want to talk about is cross region
replication there are many reasons why
you may want that why you may need to
replicate across regions you may have
compliance requirement that that
necessitate you to store data hundreds
of miles apart you may want to enhance
security by replicating data between
buckets with completely separate owners
and account account owners we here ring
who have just shared with us that the
video doorbell company they use cross
region replication so they have data in
two different region to take advantage
of spot instance pricing so they can
process data so they could process their
video in a lower cost and they also use
cross-range replication to provide low
latency access to their end users so how
cross region replication works is you
put a policy in that's a that tells s3
the destination region and the
destination bucket of your choice to
replicate to and once you put the policy
in we automatically and asynchronously
replicate your storage for so every new
upload into s3 is replicated in to that
destination bucket you can also you can
choose to
placate a full bucket or specific
prefixes within that bucket you can also
you can also choose to replicate into a
different storage class for example if
all your if you have a mix of standard
or standard in frequent access in your
source bucket and you wanted everything
in standard in frequent access you can
just you can set that as part of your
replication policy once you set that
policy just like all the other policy
you can you can let s 3 do the work and
you can focus on developing your
application so in summary we've talked
about four ways of automating management
tasks across your application as a
policy you can automate transition and
exploration with lifecycle policy
consider doing trigger based workflow
with s3 event notification and also
think we recommend using versioning so
that you can easily recover from
accidental delete the third big topic
that I want to discuss is best some of
the best practices you can use to
optimize s3 performance we're going to
start with faster upload if you have if
you have a user-generated content
content use case you may have customers
that are uploading from all over the
world into your central ice bucket you
may also well maybe you have you have to
transfer data large amount of data
across the continent frequently in your
use case consider using s3 transfer
acceleration s3 transfer acceleration
leverages the AWS edge network when you
enable transfer acceleration we we would
automatically route your data into the
closest endpoint into the closest edge
network so that your data travels in
travels the shortest distance a shorter
distance on the public internet and they
travel the remaining remaining longer
distance in the AWS backbone which is an
optimized network so you get much faster
performance that way transfer
acceleration you
just a standard tcp and HTTP protocol so
there's you don't need to change any
firewall there's no client software to
da to upload all you do all you need to
do is to enable the enable transfer
acceleration for your bucket and we'll
give you an endpoint and you change that
endpoint on your on your application and
once you do that every upload is
automatically accelerated for you you'll
notice that the the benefit of it
depends on how long you how long the
distance is from your source to your
destination generally you'll find that
the longer the distance and the larger
the file the more you benefit from using
s3 transfer acceleration so we have 68
global edge locations we just added
three more or less last week so there's
bound to be one that is close to your
source region you can also try it before
you want to implement it you can try it
at s3 speed test calm from your source
region you can see how much in your
specific use case you'll benefit before
you implement it
a second way of getting faster upload of
large object is to parallel eyes put
with multi-part uploads multi-part
uploads allow you to upload large
objects in a set of parts you can upload
parts in parallel or in any order you
can pause you can resume when you
complete a multi-part upload s3 puts the
parts together and create the object for
you when you're uploading large objects
over a stable network over a stable
connection with significant bandwidth
you can parallel eyes uploading that
your parts to maximize that network
throughput to get and to get multi
threaded performance
if you're uploading on the contrary if
you're uploading objects over a spotty
network you may see you may see your
partner your upload drops being
interrupted using multiple heart upload
would actually increase the resiliency
for your application to network error
because you only need to retry the one
or two parts that are dropped and you
don't have to restart that upload from
the beginning when we talked about
upload let's talk about download you can
also parallel eyes get the same way you
parallelized puts if you are if you are
getting large objects consider using
range base gets here's an example of a
range base gets where I specify that I
wanted to see the first 10 bytes of the
object to come back so you can you can
parallel eyes with range base gets and
and get your object back faster if you
know that your object was uploaded with
multi parts you can get you can align
your get ranges with those parts so that
you will actually get the best
performance that way
okay if you're doing lots of gets on the
same object over the Internet consider
using Amazon CloudFront cloud front is
integrated with s3 and what it does is
it caches the object at the edge
locations what it does once it catch the
object into the in the edge location
then your your end user will see much
lower latency data transfer to them and
so the performance of their get object
is much better that way the third topic
that I want to get to is is how what are
the ways that you can get higher
requests per second out of s3 by
distributing your key names you only
need to consider this if you're planning
to have an application that would spike
over a hundred requests per second on
your bucket as three routinely scales up
to millions of requests per second and
the way we do that is that we spread
your key names among petitions and we do
that automatically over time as we see
your request rate increase it's
interesting to know that our index layer
is sorted in an alphanumeric order the
same way you see the result when you
list your bucket so if you name your
objects starting with a date which is
quite common all of these Keys will
actually fall into the same partition
and if you when you spiked to hundreds
of thousands of transaction for some
requests per second it is likely that
you might get throttle and so we want
you to consider we want you to consider
adding randomness to the beginning of
your key name either with a hash or
reverse time stamp so it would look
something like this and you as you can
see every one of these key name now
would fall into a different partition
and you so your transaction can be
distributed across petitions and you'll
be able to get much higher requests per
second without getting throttled the
last topic I want to talk about it for
performance is its list
as you know the s3 lists requests page
and eights and a thousand so we give you
a thousand record at a time if you have
a bucket with lots and lots of lots and
lots of objects you may spend
significant amount of time and effort
just to try to list your bucket so let
us do that for you we're introducing s3
inventory what it is is it is a
scheduled alternative to the synchronous
list you can get the list result deliver
to to you and your bucket either on a
daily or weekly basis as a flat CSV file
so you can you can instruct us to list
either the full bucket or by specific
prefix and what's better is pricing of
that is half of our sacred synchronous
list API at a quarter of a penny per
million object listed and I want to give
you a quick getting started with our new
management console it is also under the
management tab go to go to inventory
under management and you can you specify
the destination bucket of your choice
you can specify either a daily interval
or weekly interval if you have a version
and able bucket you can choose to only
list the current version of those of
those objects or you can also choose you
can also ask us to list everything you
can also choose optional fields
additional fields to include in the
inventory report including replication
status if you do in cross your
application let's see we want we also
want to make sure that you're aware that
you need to give us permission to write
to your bucket you know when when you
add your inventory report when you
enable inventory report we want to make
sure that you're giving us the right
bucket policy to allow s3 to write to
your bucket so in summary we've kind of
gone through a lot of best practices
will give you two ways to get faster
upload through s3 transfer acceleration
or s3 multi-part upload talked a little
bit about keen
aiming for high TPS workload and a
couple ways to optimize you get
performance as well as optimized lists
by using s for their inventory now let's
move to some tools that would help you
manage your storage as used to learn s3
you are probably used to organizing your
data by location as we are a flat
namespace storage you probably are
organizing it by bucket or by prefix
we're introducing s3 object tags so now
you can organize your data based on the
nature of data based on what it is s3
tags object tags are key value pairs
then you can apply to an object you can
put as many as 10 tags per object with
tags you can set up an IAM access
control policy so you can control access
you can set up a lifecycle policy with
tags as I previously mentioned you can
also customize storage metrics and
analytics with tags there are two ways
that you can you can put you can tag
your object one is when you put when you
put your object in your put object
request you can enable the tech you can
put your tags as part of the tag header
or you can also add tag to existing
object with a separate API tags can be
created edited or deleted and any time
during the lifetime of the of the object
here's an example of how you can manage
access with object tags this user
permission policy grants the user get
object permission to the to the object
in example bucket that has been tagged
with Project X so as you can see you can
you can now use tags to to basically
manage access with with the policies
well to manage your storage you also
need the ability to audit and monitor
access you can do that by enabling a
cloud trail AWS cloud trail cloud trail
logs captures a bucket level and object
both bucket level and object level
details you might have been you might
have been familiar with the bucket level
details which we've had for about a year
and last week we just added object level
detail which we're calling a data event
for each request the log would include
who made the API all the details who
made the API calls when it was made what
resource was affected so you can use
that the logs to perform security
analysis media IT auditing needs as well
as understand what your end user
behavior is and and also consider
changing some of your policy to tighten
access control if it needs to be the
logs are delivered directly to your s3
bucket of your choice you can enable a
cloud trail logs at the bucket level
pricing is ten cents per 10,000 data
events and we also there's also charges
for storage you can also optionally set
a notification so you get notified when
the log is delivered to your bucket who
of you are running a web mobile of the
business application that depends on
your cloud storage Oh lots of you so
you'll be you'll be interesting you
probably be interested in on the
visibility in your storage performance
so you can so you can see what how your
operation how their storage is operating
against your against your application
Amazon CloudWatch metrics will be
something that you should consider
CloudWatch metrics give you the
visibility into storage performance so
you can quickly identify and act on any
operation operational issue that comes
up you can use UK with cloud wash
metrics we've just added 30
new metrics including request level
metrics as well as been with metrics
within one minute granularity so these
are really good for this is the use
cases for operational operational
metrics you can also set cloud watch
alarm to get an alert if the metrics
exceeds the level that you have
predefined so you can act on issues
timely for example you can you can set
you can you can see 400 400 series error
and you can set a level where you need
you you would like to get page because
those are those are the time when you
your end user is getting their
performance impacted you can configure
metrics by by the bucket prefix or tags
so you can align your metrics and
customize the alert to the specific
application or workflow that your
monitoring for metrics is thirty cents
per metric per month we want to show you
a little bit about how it looks like so
this is how it looks like it is it is
also part of the management tab within
the AWS 3 console and what you can see
this example is the total request
latency in millisecond per request you
can see that you can up you can you can
hover over each of these data points and
it would actually shows you the reading
on it so you can get real time
operations and performance of your
storage when you enable this for the
first time it may take up to 15 minutes
to to see the metrics start flowing and
you can also see on the top there you
can get a time series of it you can
choose between one anywhere between one
hour all the way up to two weeks so you
can see how your operations is doing
historically as well so that we have we
added 13 new metrics to cloud watch we
we have existing before this we have
storage metrics so you can see object
count and how much storage you have so
their storage related metrics and now
we've we have just added
13 more including nine requests related
metrics so all the different kinds of
requests as well as 400 or 500 arrows
and latency related metrics you can set
alarms off on any of those in the cloud
watch console okay here's how you get
started you probably be familiar with
this console now under the management
tab in the middle is the it's the
metrics in the middle of the metrics tab
you can enable metrics in on the left
side of the console by checking the box
you can add filter under the under the
filter column and again once you enable
this you'll start seeing you start
seeing metrics flowing in about 15
minutes okay so in sum in summary we've
talked about quite a few ways for you to
manage your storage you can classify
your storage and manage access using s3
object tags you can audit and monitor
access using AWS cloud trail logs you
can also monitor operation monitor your
operational performance and set alarm
with s3 cloud watch metrics and to recap
we've kind of gone through quite a bit
today to recap which we've talked about
how you can pick the right storage class
for your use case including some tools
to help you do that we've talked about
how to automate management task some of
the best practices you can use to
optimize your s3 performance as well as
tools to help you manage storage so and
I think with that actually one thing
that I before before i end this
presentation if you're interested in how
one of our customer uses s3 for their
Big Data Platform FINRA is sharing their
architecture and their experience in the
next hour in Venetian ballroom B so you
can you can go and listen to them listen
to their experience firsthand if you
like so with that
I actually conclude this this
presentation and I'm going to stay out
in the foyer here to take any questions
you have thank you very much
whether that's merging them or
rearranging them and then it's going to
send it in to the to the request queue
so this is a ring buffer for the Zen
device driver that interrupts between
the instance itself and the hypervisor
and it's made up of 32 requests can be
in the ring at any point in time and his
buffer so pre 38 the max size of any
request was 44 kb that was flat so with
some later enhancements the Linux kernel
you're able to the default now is 128 so
anything over a kernel version of 38 the
default will be 128 kb for a request and
you're able to tune that up to a full
meg
that's what I met windows does not
support this so Windows this is stuck at
44 and on to the actual hypervisor and
then on to EBS and actually the train
that all the train stuff in accounting
and the logical merging we discuss that
happens back in the actual service so
that's where that is now another change
happened in Linux 42 so Zen adopted the
Block in Q model in 42 afterwards so
blocking cook you did away with the old
schedulers then most of those schedulers
were very much designed for optimizing
workloads on hard disk drives and
introduced block in queue which does a
queue requests per core which is great
for ssds right because you can each core
has its own request queue you can you
know send down a lot of parallel
parallel iOS but what's good for ssds is
is not so great for our disk drives so
this is why we recommend that if you're
running on a 42 or later kernel that you
crank up the maximum request size to the
full amount the full one mag and you
might say well why is that and it's
because if you stick it out 128 and
you're sending down large block iOS so
say you send 31 Meg iOS and you're at
the default 128k those are going to get
chopped up so that's 2428 case sections
that might end up on different core
queues and by the time it gets to EBS
that looks random you know you started
with three one megabyte iOS by the time
EVS sees it it could be completely mixed
up so cranking that up to a full Meg
means those three iOS stay as one unit
in the request queue so helps with the
throughput so that's that's recommended
in general but definitely after 42 when
blocking mq comes into the scene keep in
mind the memory is allocated per device
so be careful if you're doing one Meg's
that's 32 megs of ram per device and
here's the command to actually enable it
and crank it up so it's a boot level
command
a second performance tuning we do
recommend with st1 an sc one is to crank
up the read ahead vote Reed had buffer
so this is recommended for any high
throughput workloads it's per device so
it's / actual volume the default is 128
play with this this setting will take
you up to a Meg we've seen really great
performance with to Meg for mag it all
depends on your workload but it is very
important for st 1 and for
high-throughput read workloads to to
work with the the read ahead buffer so
hopefully by now it's kind of a parent
where the balance is between throughput
versus I ops so the example here is an
i/o one volume provision I ops at 20,000
so it all depends on the actual block
size that you're sending what you can do
so on the far left side which is the
smallest block so 16k we can send the
full 20,000 and get the full throughput
if we have that 10,000 I ops but send
double the size as far as request sighs
and iOS we can still do that what we
can't do is send 10,000 64k that would
obviously be six hundred forty megabytes
to the volume I would exceed the volumes
throughput characteristics and we
couldn't do that but we can do is send
the largest amount the largest block
size for the ir one 256k at 12 1250 I
ops and that would get you to the full
throughput so it's always a spectrum
between I ops and throughput
which means when we talk about EBS
optimized bandwidth is really important
bandwidth matters that you know how much
bandwidth you have your EBS volume and
your expectations are for that workload
and how much you want to drive to the
volume so here we are with a C for large
which has 500 megabytes megabits excuse
me of bandwidth dedicated to EBS and
we've attached a two terabyte gb to
volume obviously that volume can do a
lot more than the band width that you
have to the volume so it's really not a
good match if you jump up one size to a
c4 to extra-large same volume size now
we've got double the bandwidth so we can
do 125 megabytes a second much better
match for that volume type you know we
can actually get to where we can almost
put full throughput to that volume but
it can take so pay attention to what you
want to push through your volumes and
how much actual network bandwidth you
have so here we see a full 10 so an m4
16 x large has 10 full gigs of EBS
bandwidth available to it so you can
push 1250 megabytes a second of data to
EBS so if you just put 18 terabyte st1
volume that does a max burst of 500 you
got a lot of bandwidth left over so
that's where striping starts to come
into play and rating raid 0 we're going
to attach multiple volumes and be able
to push against all of them and get a
collective throughput amount for all the
volumes so when should you consider
rating when the storage requirements
greater than 16 terabytes it's obviously
the max size for a single volume when
the throughput requirements are greater
than 500 that's again the max for the
st14 it's a throughput or I ops on I ops
and if your office requirements are
greater than 20,000 at 16k you're going
to need more than one volume
but what we don't recommend is rating
for redundancy so here we see sending
down to a raid 0 set we talked about the
replicas you're basically emulating what
a raid 10 would do right you have a
replicated copy of every block that
you're sending down to your raid 0 but
you're not paying for the two times the
storage which is what you would do with
a raid 10 so that's why we say we avoid
raid for redundancy data is already
replicated here if you're doing a raid
one you're having the available EBS
bandwidth available to your volume
because you're sending everything down
twice and same with something like a
raid 5 or 6 all that parity data is
taking up your eye ops taking up your
network bandwidth a few things
unreliability so instance failure if an
instance fails and EBS volume is
attached to it your volume is persistent
still in doors outside the life of the
instance you know obviously attach it to
another instance and get access to your
data but there's also a feature called
ec2 auto recovery that is enabled by EBS
which is a much better option for
recovering instance failures so you have
a cloud watch metrics on a per instance
basis so it's called status check failed
system and this is a rollup of all kinds
of different health checks that ec2 is
doing on your behalf to validate the
health of both the system and your
instance and if the system fails and
this health check fails you can choose a
recovery action within cloud watch so on
that alarm what action would you like to
trigger it's called recover and we will
migrate that instance to new hardware
automatically recover that instance and
it will have all the characteristics
that that instance has so whether that's
the IP addresses the instance ID the
volume mounts everything will be the
same and that's supported on any of our
modern generation instance types that
are EBS only storage
and what about if you terminate your
instance what happens to your volume
that completely depends upon the Delete
on termination flag that you set on
either instance launch or volume
creation so if you create a volume
outside of an instance launch the Delete
on termination flag is set to false
which means if the instance that it's
attached to is terminated EBS volume
endures if however that flag is set to
true which is the default for any volume
that you launch with an instance so boot
volumes or if you attach a bunch of data
volumes to an instance when you actually
launch it the flag by default will be
set to true those volumes will go with
the instance itself which is actually a
good point of housekeeping because I see
a lot of customers who launched volumes
outside of instance creations and they
have a lot of volumes just sitting out
there that aren't doing anything and
aren't attached and a lot of it is
because they haven't set these flags so
it's a good point of housekeeping to pay
attention and make sure that the volumes
that are out there and unattached are
ones that you actually want to be out
there what about taking snapshots so a
few best practices about snapshots and
this is this is really the difference
between crash consistency versus
application consistency so you know by
default if you pull the virtual plug on
your instances with EBS you will still
have crash consents to see as long as
you're using a journal file system which
I hope most of you are so this is how
you get these are best practices for
getting application consistency so this
is all the caches everything in the file
system and application that's not yet
committed to disk that you would lose if
the plug was pulled so for example on a
database you flush you lock the tables
you clear out the database caches on a
file system you sink and fs freeze it
all do all these things before you
actually take a snapshot so that you are
guaranteed that everything that's in
cash in state and memory has been
flushed to disk before you take your
snapshot and when you when you issue
that create snapshot API you'll get an
answer back within a few seconds so you
only have two FS freeze for
just a second or two before you get back
in okay from the API call you're good to
go from then you don't you don't have to
wait for the actual transfer of data to
s3 to complete the depending it will
stay in a pending state the snapshot but
you can go ahead and keep using the
volume as soon as that creates snapshot
API returns a 200 success windows is a
little different because NTFS does not
have an equivalent file system freeze so
it does have a sink that's available out
there in sysinternals you can download a
sink equivalent but really it's it's all
about VSS so volume Shadow Copy Service
is is is Microsoft's technology for
doing their own brand of snapshots so
what we recommend is is what you saw
within for the case study is attaching
dedicated backup volumes for your
windows backups all of Windows you know
whether it's exchange or sequel server
they all support VSS based backups
natively so the idea is that you you use
those native windows backup utilities to
create your backups you store those
backups on the EBS volume and then you
snap shot that backup EBS for you so
here you see here we've dedicated TBS
volume just for backups backups are sent
to that volume and that's what we
snapshot so what about initializing a
volume so a new EBS volume you just
attach it and it's ready to go the
performance characteristics there's
nothing you have to do to get to the
full volume performance it's ready to go
out of the box but if you're creating a
volume from a snapshot we obviously have
to get that data from s3 to the new
volume so there's going to be a latency
impact there because you might be
hitting blocks that haven't arrived yet
so there is a lazy load process where if
you do try to access a block on the
device that's not there yet it'll get
queued to the front but you're obviously
still going to get a latency impact
before it actually arrives so we do
recommend if you're generating a new
volume from a snapshot and you do want
full performance out of that volume as
fast as
able to initialize first so how do you
actually initialize so we recommend a
random read across volumes and here's
the file that we recommend so we
recommend file over something like DD if
I was multi-threaded it's also a lot
more tunable so random going back to the
you know that the the split logical
volume across a lot of physical physical
blocks across many devices if you
randomize that you can you can bring
that parallel nature of the volume
itself to bear if you're running a
sequential initialization you're just
going to hit each of those along the
line you're not going to take advantage
of the fact that this is a distributed
system and all that stuff can come at
you in parallel fashion so you can play
with the block size 128 is kind of a
compromise between file running a really
long time versus your data already being
there so what I always recommend is
watch the latency volume characteristics
so the cloud watch latency curve for the
volume while you're recommending your
file so you don't necessarily need to
run your Phi 0 to completion if you're
watching the latency curve and you see
that it's starting to flatline which
means everything all your data is start
is there on the disk so you're not
having to wait for the latency impact of
a new block to come down from s3 didn't
stop the file you're done and you can
play with that block size to see what
your optimal initialisation block size
might be for your for your volume ok
what about automating snapshots
obviously customers agenor eight
thousands and thousands of snapshots you
know managing them life cycle of them
expiring them keeping track of them can
be a hassle so here's a quick idea of
how to take a number of AWS tools to
create a framework for lifecycle
management of snapshots so it's based
off of a few key ingredients so lambda
our ec2 run command which is a way to
distribute system commands to all your
instances to whether that's bash scripts
that you want to run powershell scripts
it allows a centralized method of sin
those commands to all your instances if
you haven't heard of run command as a
link for it and then robust used of
tagging to actually drive all the logic
of this workflow so we start with the
instance and we put a couple of tag tags
on the instance itself one back knee up
this is a backup where the instance and
to any snapshots you take of my volumes
here's the retention I would like for
those volumes we have a scheduled lambda
function that's going to run every day
it's going to search for all those
instances that are tagged back up it's
going to use ec to run to send all of
those good best practice snapshotting
commands that i mentioned earlier to qui
us the filesystem make sure it's ready
and take good snapshots and then
obviously snapshot all the volumes and
in the process it's going to compute the
expiration date of those volumes and
slap that tag onto the vault under the
snapshot itself so the snapshot will now
have a tag that says expire me on a
certain date now on the opposite end for
the actual lifestyle cycle expiration we
have a separate lambda function that's
going to go out and look every day for
tags of expiration for that day and it's
going to delete this so very simple to
lambda functions and a few tags to do
some very robust house cleaning of your
snapshots so I hope that sounds useful
yeah there it is we have my team put up
a prototype check it out let us know
what you think
alright last but not least a quick best
practice around encryption so I
mentioned encryption is checkbox very
easy to do on your volume there's one
thing that I would recommend though and
that is not going with the default which
is to use the default AWS EVS master key
you always recommend to create your own
customer managed key instead of using
the default he gives you a lot more
control and why is that so this is a
real quick how you create your own
customer manage key just go into I am
console Identity and Access Management
corruption keys create a new wait KMS
master key name it whatever you want I
name this one need BS master because
that's what I'm going to use it for and
by using your own key you get a lot more
control about how the key is used so you
get to define the rotation policy for
that key you get to enable cloud watch
auditing so you can tell who is using it
what they're using it for and you can
control who can use it and who can use
it for what you know you might want one
team to use it for encryption and one
team to be able to use it for decryption
and obviously who can actually
administer the key so these options
would not be possible if you went with
just the default key so here you see a
we're back at the checkbox encryption
instead I've changed the master key to
be the one that I just created for
myself and how does this actually work
so we use a process called envelope
encryption so this is a hierarchy of
encryption for EBS so the master key
that you just created is stored in our
key management system it never leaves
the key management system but what it
does do is allow you to individually
encrypt one data key per volume so every
volume has its own unique data key that
is envelope encrypted by the master key
and then stored as metadata in the
volume itself so that's double encrypted
data key and the metadata of the volume
when you actually want to mount the
volume and use it the KMS service is
call
again to decrypt that key from metadata
and then that decrypted key is stored in
the memory of the actual instance you're
trying to mount the volume on so now
you're actually able to access and use
the volume decrypt and encrypt the data
on the volume with the key and now why
do why would we do this obviously it
limits the exposure risk so if there's
any key that's for some reason
compromised it's it's contained the
blast radius is a single volume it's not
your entire BBS inventory the
performance is obviously a huge win
because the encryption is being done in
memory and the instance itself where the
where the data is you're not shipping
data across the wire back and forth 2
kms to encrypt bulk data and it
simplifies your key management you have
one master key that can encrypt any
number of data keys and that's it thank
you very much i really appreciate time